# Pass Gen 2
*This project is a follow-up to a project that was never published, hence the "2" in the title.*

This project is a simple terminal app that will generate a secure password from a given input.

## Installation
Linux and Windows binaries can be found in the release page of the project. To install just download and run the program.

You can also compile the program from source.

The source code provided comes with a meson.build file.

### Compiling From Source:
*for a typical linux machine*

#### Prerequisites 
In order to compile the code you will need to:
- install meson
    meson installation instructions can be found here (https://mesonbuild.com/Getting-meson.html "Meson Installation")
- install a C++ compiler
    if you are using linux you most likely have gcc installed; or something similar.
    if you are using windows (https://paddyts.medium.com/how-to-install-mingw-on-windows-10-gcc-8-2-0-9a9074383af9 "Installing MinGW or GCC")
  please note: I am not entirely familiar with compiling C++ on windows. I do all my work in the linux terminal and there would be better people to ask if you want to get it working.

#### Clone the Repository
SSH: `git clone git@github.com:inThe-FLesh/passGen2.git`
**or**
HTTPS: `git clone https://github.com/inThe-FLesh/passGen2.git`

#### Setup the Meson Build Directory
cd into the cloned directory 
`cd passGen2`

run
`meson setup builddir`

you can replace "builddir" with whatever you like, it is just what I prefer to use.

#### Compile
run
`meson compile -C builddir`

Ensure that the compilation runs without any errors, and voila! There should be a binary in the builddir directory.

Meson should auto-detect the compiler for your system and run without issue. The program doesn't use any libraries and has no dependencies. Everything you need is contained in the repo.

## Usage
The program will ask you to enter a password and will print the secure password it has generated. 
Simply copy that password into your password manager, write it down, or paste it directly into a login page.

The password generated for any given text will never change. Therefore if you lose your password you can always generate it again, 
given you remember the original password.

## Rationale
The purpose of this program is to make it easier to use unsecure passwords to generate much more secure passwords on a local machine.

I personally don't like using secure passwords generated by browsers or password managers, and I would much rather have a fool-proof method for retrieving my passwords.

Using this you no longer have to rely on browser sync or a password manager when logging in on different machines. You simply run the program and type the password you used for that service.

### Methods Used
The program uses a modified version of the BCrypt algorithm that I created during my university project.

It generates a salt using the inputted password, meaning that each password is hashed using a pseudo random salt.

The BCrypt algorithm is known for resistance to password attacks, making it a suitable choice for this kind of implementation.

## Disclaimer
This code was mostly written under time constraints of completing a project. The code has not been properly tested.

The creators of passGen2 in no way accept any liability for damages caused. 

The security of the implementation has not been validated entirely.
